Adding Stabilizer User Manual (#401)
quartiq/stabilizer: docs/pages/getting-started.md

---
title: Getting Started
layout: default
permalink: /getting-started
nav_order: 2
---

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}
---

# Getting Started

> Getting started requires a few steps:
> There are a number of steps that must be completed when first getting started with Stabilizer.
> 1. Configure the firmware
>     * This requires updating any parameters, such as static IP addresses and
>    sampling rate.
> 1. Build the application
>     * This requires compiling the code after configuration parameters have been
>    updated.
> 1. Upload the application
>     * Once fimrware has been built, it needs to be programmed onto the device.
> 1. Set up MQTT
>     * Stabilizer utilizes MQTT for telemetry and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a number of steps that must be completed when first getting started with Stabilizer.
1. Set parameters in the firmware source code, such as IP addresses and sampling rate.
1. Build the application by compiling the source code.
1. Upload the application and programming it onto the device.
1. Set up MQTT for telemetry and configuration.
```

The following sections will walk you through completing each of these steps.

> # Program Stabilizer

Reviewer: These sections here don't follow the path that was promised above. Also you need to first download (clone) the code before being able to edit `configuration.rs`.

Author: They do, but the docs are divided into two steps:
1. Get updated firmware on the device
2. Set up MQTT

That division isn't clear in the steps above. I'll look into a fix.

Firmware is compiled and loaded onto Stabilizer to program a specific application.

After receiving the Stabilizer hardware, you will need to flash firmware onto the device to use your
desired application.

## Configuring Firmware

Stabilizer firmware contains compile-time parameters that may need to be changed based on
application requirements. Some examples of parameters that may require configuraton:

> * Sample frequency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sampling interval.
```

> * Sample batch size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Batch size.
```

* MQTT Broker IP address

> Parameters are configured by editing `src/configuration.rs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters are configured by editing the file `src/configuration.rs`.
```

> Refer to the [documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/firmware/stabilizer/configuration.rs) for more

Reviewer: To catch dead links like [this one](https://quartiq.de/stabilizer/firmware/stabilizer/configuration.rs), maybe [htmlproofer](https://clementbm.github.io/github%20action/jekyll/link%20checking/2020/05/31/automatically-validate-links-on-jekyll-website.html)?

Author: There's some others as well that refer to `/#application` instead of `{{site.baseurl}}/#application`. Definitely need to look for a tool to proof the Jekyll output

Stabilizer firmware contains compile-time parameters that may need to be changed based on
application requirements. Some examples of parameters that may require configuraton:
* Sample frequency
* Sample batch size
* MQTT Broker IP address

Parameters are configured by editing `src/configuration.rs`.

Refer to the [documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/firmware/stabilizer/configuration.rs) for more
information on parameters.

When these parameters are updated, firmware must be built and flashed onto Stabilizer before they
take effect.

## Building Firmware

1. Clone or download [stabilizer](https://github.com/quartiq/stabilizer)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/quartiq/stabilizer
```
1. Get [rustup](https://rustup.rs/)
    * The minimum supported Rust version (MSRV) is 1.52.0
1. Install target support
```bash
rustup target add thumbv7em-none-eabihf
```
1. Build Firmware
```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Uploading Firmware

Firmware is loaded onto stabilizer utilizing an ST-Link (V2-1 or greater) JTAG programmer.
* If a programmer is not available, please see the [alternative method](#alternative-using-usb)

Ensure the ST-Link is connected to Stabilizer as shown below.

> TODO: Add photo of JTAG connector

Author: Add photo of JTAG connector properly seated on the PCBA

All of the instructions below assume you have properly [`built the firmware`](#building-firmware).

Substitute `dual-iir` below with the application name you are flashing.

1. Install [cargo-binutils](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cargo-binutils/)
```bash
cargo install cargo-binutils
rustup component add llvm-tools-preview
```

1. Generate the binary file
```bash
cargo objcopy --release --bin dual-iir -- -O binary dual-iir.bin`
```

1. Copy `dual-iir.bin` into the ST-Link drive on your computer.

> * TODO: Add photo of what this looks like.

Author: Add photo of USB mass storage device upload
